---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Igniting the fire
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-04-27
labels:
  - Operating System
  - Virtual Machine
---

The Virtual Machine 
Zachary Valencik
CSC3100 Operating Systems
Aurora University 
April 27, 2020

Want to be able to use a different operating system on a different operating system without replacing it? Well then, a special program called a virtual machine is the way to! There are many uses that one can use a virtual machine for. Virtual Machines had a lot of time to grow when they first started being created and we will touch on that. What we will go over is that we will start with the history of Virtual Machines, Hypervisor types, Advantages and disadvantages of Virtual Machines, how virtual machines deal with memory management and I/O management, and finally end with security related to virtual machines. 
	The Virtual machine started way back in the 1960’s and was helped started by companies such as Bell Labs, General Electric and IBM (Conroy). In this timeline of the 60’s, there was a project that helped kicked start the concept of the virtual machine. The project was called “Project MAC” and was created at MIT (Conroy). Because of this project, it sparked IBM to start their own type of project. What project this was from IBM was the invention of the CP-40 “Control-Program 40” mainframe which then turned into the CP-67 system and this was the first time the public was able to have use of virtualization (Conroy). Now that we have gone over the beginning history of the virtual machine, we will next talk about the hypervisor and how it helps virtual machines.
	A hypervisor is a very important part of software for the virtual machine. There are two types of hypervisor that we will go over. The first type of hypervisor that will be talked about is a “type one” hypervisor which is also called a “bare-metal hypervisor”. With this you get a basic type of an operating system that cannot do much but are still useful for things like an enterprise environment (Simic). Even though the type one provides little things to do, they do have a good use. The good use and benefit that type one hypervisors provide is as according to Simic is the “over-allocation of physical resources”. For the next type of hypervisor convenient named “type two”, they can be also called “hosted” hypervisors. With a type two hypervisor, a user can have a lot more freedom to do stuff on a virtual machine has if they were using their own main operating system. One of the good things that a person might use a type two hypervisor is the use to be able to test a type of software they created or projects a team or self-have created (Simic). Since we are done talking about the importance of the hypervisor for the virtual machine, we should go over some of the advantages and the disadvantages of using a virtual machine. 
	A virtual machine provides many benefits for the user that wants to use it, but there are some disadvantages if one would want to use one. First, we will talk about the some of the advantage of using a virtual machine and they are many good advantages and benefits one would get out of using a virtual machine for the many uses they provide. Advantages for a virtual machine include, companies that use them a lot will can use less computers to host different operating systems on so it will save the company money, it helps on server hardware efficiency, and has quick development capability (DataFlair Team). Now to go onto some of the disadvantages of using virtual machines and some of them may be obvious. Some of them include that the virtual machine operating system will be at a lower performance than the main operating system of the computer, and if the computer is hosting a lot of virtual machines at once, if the computer is not at good performance, they virtual machines will suffer from low performance also but this can simply be solved by upgrading the computer or running fewer virtual machines at once. (Totunji. It should be noted that the disadvantages of a virtual machine should not deter someone from using one as the advantages of using one should outweigh the negatives of using one. Since the details of the advantages and disadvantages of a virtual machine, it should be good to touch into how the virtual machine deals with the management of memory and I/O.
	Memory and I/O management are important concepts in making a virtual machine working as efficient as possible. For memory management it should be noted that the amount of memory allocated into the virtual machine should be taken into consideration. This is because when a virtual machine grows a memory bottleneck may be an issue if one does not allocate enough memory to the virtual machine (Stallings, 616). Now a bottleneck with memory should be considered because the problems that it can cause within the virtual machine. To fix this problem, a feature that can help memory allocation with a virtual machine, or a collection of virtual machines on a single computer would be the use of page sharing (Stallings, 616). With I/O management it is just as important to the virtual machine as the memory management. Now with I/O on a virtual machine the way it is done is not hard to understand as compared to regular I/O. (Stallings, 618). Another important concept in virtual machine that we will finish off with now is how security plays into the virtual machine. 
	Like on the main operating system that a computer uses, security should play a large role into protecting the user or server while being inside a virtual environment. An example of the security in use for virtual machines in how virtual machines are being used for cloud computing (Han et al). Now, we should wrap up on things on the virtual machine. 
	In conclusion there are many interesting and important things that go along with the virtual machine. There are a lot of important things that go along with a virtual machine that a person who goes into a computer career should know about. A person that is into computers should get in touch with a virtual machine and expand their knowledge of their computer skills.

Work Cited
Conroy, Sean. “History of Virtualization.” I Don't Know, Read The Manual, 5 July 2019, www.idkrtm.com/history-of-virtualization/.
Dataflair Team. “Operating System Virtualization - Types, Working, Benefits.” DataFlair, 26 Dec. 2018, data-flair.training/blogs/operating-system-virtualization/.
Han, Jin, et al. “Risk-Aware Multi-Objective Optimized Virtual Machine Placement in the Cloud.” 2018, http://web.b.ebscohost.com.library.aurora.edu/ehost/detail/detail?vid=14&sid=b54aa5b3-5262-464d-b0a1-c342eefd9e56@pdc-v-sessmgr03&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZSZzY29wZT1zaXRl#AN=134583443&db=bth.
Simic, Sofija. “What Is A Hypervisor? Types Of Hypervisors 1 & 2.” Knowledge Base by PhoenixNAP, 31 Jan. 2020, www.phoenixnap.com/kb/what-is-hypervisor-type-1-2.
Stallings, William. Operating Systems: Internals and Design Principles. 9th ed., Pearson Education, Inc., 2018.
Totunji, Ayman. “Virtual Machines: Pros & Cons.” Cynexlink, 9               Dec. 2019, www.cynexlink.com/2017/08/18/virtual-machines-pros-cons/.

